Antony Franklin 
Assistant Professor
Research Areas: Mobile Wireless Networks, 5G Networks and Systems, Cloud RAN, Edge Cloud.

With the increasing number of connected devices (5.6 billion smart phone subscriptions expected at end of 2019), there is an exponential growth in data usage by smart devices such as smart phones and tablets (10 X growth in mobile data traffic between 2013 and 2019). The fifth generation (5G) cellular technology would be the beginning of the realization of Internet of Things (IoT) where everything would be connected to the Internet. This new generation essentially redefine the way these devices communicate with each other. The main key requirements of this new generation mobile system are Gpbs data rate anywhere in the cell and less than a msec end-to-end latency. Also as we move on to this new 5G era, more emphasis would be given for the Quality of Experience (QoE) of next generation mobile services such as UHD video streaming, virtual reality, tactile Internet, autonomous driving, etc. These requirements are very hard to achieve with the existing cellular systems. Different technological advancements are needed to achieve these stringent requirements of the next generation mobile services. We work on various key research issues that need to be addressed to realize the success of next generation mobile technology such as inter-working of multiple radio access technologies (convergence of 4G, 5G, and WiFi), converged cloud radio access network, edge content distribution, low latency transport, etc. We also develop test-beds and prototypes to demonstrate the working of our developed technologies in a real-world scenario. For more info, visit http://newslab.iith.ac.in/newslab/