---
title: Invited Talk by Prof. Sanjay K. Jha from the University of New South Wales, Australia on "A Changing Landscape- Securing The Internet Of Things (IoT)."
---

##### **Invited Talk by Prof. Sanjay K. Jha from the University of New South Wales, Australia on "A Changing Landscape: Securing The Internet Of Things (IoT)."**
**Title:**  A Changing Landscape: Securing The Internet Of Things (IoT)  
**Speaker:** Prof. Sanjay K. Jha from the University of New South Wales, Australia  
**Host Faculty:** Dr. BheemArjuna Reddy Tamma  
**Room No:** LH1 (A-block)  
**Time:** 11:00 am
 
**Abstract:**

First part of this talk will discuss how the community is converging towards the IoT vision having worked in wireless sensor networking and Machine-2-Machine (M2M) communication. This will follow a general discussion of security challenges in IoT. Finally I will discuss some results from an ongoing projects on security of bodywork devices and IoT. Wireless bodyworn sensing devices are becoming popular for fitness, sports training and personalized healthcare applications. Securing the data generated by these devices is essential if they are to be integrated into the current health infrastructure and employed in medical applications. In this talk, I will discuss a mechanism to secure data provenance and location proof for these devices by exploiting symmetric spatio-temporal characteristics of the wireless link between two communicating parties. Our solution enables both parties to generate closely matching `link' fingerprints, which uniquely associate a data session with a wireless link such that a third party, at a later date, can verify the links the data was communicated on. These fingerprints are very hard for an eavesdropper to forge, lightweight compared to traditional provenance mechanisms, and allow for interesting security properties such as accountability and non-repudiation. I will present our solution with experiments using bodyworn devices in scenarios approximating actual device deployment. I will also touch upon other research on secure reprogramming of IoT devices over wireless networks.

**Speaker's Bio:**

Professor Sanjay K. Jha is Director of the Cybersecurity and Privacy Laboratory (Cyspri) at UNSW. He also heads the Network Systems and Security Group (NetSys) at the School of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of New South Wales. His research activities cover a wide range of topics in networking including Network and Systems Security, Wireless Sensor Networks, Adhoc/Community wireless networks, Resilience and Multicasting in IP Networks. Sanjay has published over 200 articles in high quality journals and conferences and graduated more than 20 Phd students. He is the principal author of the book Engineering Internet QoS and a co-editor of the book Wireless Sensor Networks: A Systems Perspective. He is an editor of the IEEE Trans. of Secure and Dependable Computing (TDSC) and served as an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing (TMC) and the ACM Computer Communication Review (CCR).

**Dates:**  
Monday, February 6, 2017 - 11:00